README.md, before:

# Github public api crawler

A programming exercise.

### The Requirements

>Pick a starting point and using Github's public /users json API crawl and
>discover up to 3 degrees of nearby users via the followers edge.

>For example, from https://api.github.com/users/pauladam we can follow and
>discover this users followers at
>https://api.github.com/users/pauladam/followers

>In Django, create a users model to store these users as well as the necessary
>data to reconstruct the graph of these users and their relations.

>Build a simple API (via tastypie or other) to support some common queries of
>this data such as,

>  - Show all users
>  - Show users related to a given user
>  - Show users all users relating to a given user by n degrees where n is a given input parameter. (/users/pauladam/within-degree?n=2)

>Add support for a filtering / sorting by a few basic fields (location,
>followers / following, company).

>### GitHub Documentation

>  - https://developer.github.com/guides/getting-started/

## Installation

In a fresh virtualenv:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/matthewcburke/github_users.git
cd github_users
pip install -r requirements.txt
cd github_users
python manage.py migrate
# crawl GitHub to get some user data
python manage.py fill_user_graph matthewcburke
python manage.py runserver
```

## Browse The API

- `localhost:8000/api/user/`: will list all users, 20 per page.
- `localhost:8000/api/user/<primary key>/` will give a detail view of the given user. This will
  include uri's for all of this user's followers and all users that this user is following.
- `localhost:8000/api/user/<primary key>/within/<distance>/`: will list all users within the given
  distance of the given user. Use distance = 1 to list all of the users that this user is related
  to.
- `http://localhost:8000/api/user/?following=<primary key>`: one can also apply filters to the user list
  endpoint. Available fields to filter on:
  - `following`
  - `followers`
  - `num_followers`
  - `num_following`
  - `location`
  - `company`
- `localhost:8000/api/user/?order_by=-num_followers`: use the order_by parameter for ordering the
  results. One may order by `id`, `github_id`, `login`, `num_followers`, `num_following`,
  `location` and `company`.

Commit message:

More details in the README.

README.md, after:

# Github public api crawler

A programming exercise.

### The Requirements

>Pick a starting point and using Github's public /users json API crawl and
>discover up to 3 degrees of nearby users via the followers edge.

>For example, from https://api.github.com/users/pauladam we can follow and
>discover this users followers at
>https://api.github.com/users/pauladam/followers

>In Django, create a users model to store these users as well as the necessary
>data to reconstruct the graph of these users and their relations.

>Build a simple API (via tastypie or other) to support some common queries of
>this data such as,

>  - Show all users
>  - Show users related to a given user
>  - Show users all users relating to a given user by n degrees where n is a given input parameter. (/users/pauladam/within-degree?n=2)

>Add support for a filtering / sorting by a few basic fields (location,
>followers / following, company).

>### GitHub Documentation

>  - https://developer.github.com/guides/getting-started/

## Installation

In a fresh virtualenv:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/matthewcburke/github_users.git
cd github_users
pip install -r requirements.txt
cd github_users
python manage.py migrate
# crawl GitHub to get some user data. This could take a while depending on the name you enter!
python manage.py fill_user_graph matthewcburke 3
python manage.py runserver
```

### Crawling GitHub

Depending on the GitHub user that you pick, this could take a while. `pauladam` pulls down 160,000
users at a distance of 3. `matthewcburke` will pull down 7 users. Pulling down the
details of 160,000 users could take many hours. If you set `POPULATE_ALL = False` in the
settings file, this project will not populate all of the details (e.g. location, company) of the
third tier connections. With this change, you should be able to download 160,000 users in ~ 2 hours.

#### Authentication and Rate Limiting

As an unauthenticated user you can make 60 requests per hour to GitHub. As an authenticated user you
can make 5,000 requests per hour. To authenticate, follow [these instructions]
(https://help.github.com/articles/creating-an-access-token-for-command-line-use/), and then
`export GITHUB_ACCESS_TOKEN=<your_access_token>` before running the `fill_user_graph` command.

## Browse The API

- `localhost:8000/api/user/`: will list all users, 20 per page.
- `localhost:8000/api/user/<primary key>/` will give a detail view of the given user. This will
  include uri's for all of this user's followers and all users that this user is following.
- `localhost:8000/api/user/<primary key>/within/<distance>/`: will list all users within the given
  distance of the given user. Use distance = 1 to list all of the users that this user is related
  to.
- `http://localhost:8000/api/user/?following=<primary key>`: one can also apply filters to the user list
  endpoint. Available fields to filter on:
  - `following`
  - `followers`
  - `num_followers`
  - `num_following`
  - `location`
  - `company`
- `localhost:8000/api/user/?order_by=-num_followers`: use the order_by parameter for ordering the
  results. One may order by `id`, `github_id`, `login`, `num_followers`, `num_following`,
  `location` and `company`.

### Performance

I don't have much context for what kind of performance should be expected, but my present solution
for finding users at a given distance can take a few minutes to return an answer with 160,000
records in the database.
